§cm To view this file as it would appear on your printer, select:
§cm            "Screen (Preview)"
§cm on the print requester, which you can access via the Project Menu.
§cm
§lm8:rm72:cm Set left and right margins for both odd and even pages
§pp66:pg60:tm2:cm Set page to 66 lines, 60 lines of text, top margin 2 lines
§Lm5:Rm75:cm Set left and right header/footer margins for odd and even pages
§hs3:cm Allow 3 lines for header
§cm Set header with company name underlined
§hb""," The Crude Group, 123 Lotus St, Gullibility OK 12121 Tel 555 555-5555 ",""
§jr:cm Right justify date
Nov 31, 1988

§jl:cm Left justify recipient's address
Carrie R. Pigeon
46 Straight Street
Five Corners, MT 21212


§jc:cm Centre justify heading
A NEW WAY TO LOSE WEIGHT FAST WHILE EATING LIKE A PIG!!


§jf:cm Flush justify text
Dear Customer:

Do you happen to know what pigs like best? Truffles! And truffles, scrumptious and expensive though they may be, are really just a fungus!

Scientists and doctors have known for years that a steady diet of 100% fungi is a surefire way to shed that excess poundage, but until now no one has made this MODERN MIRACLE FOOD available to the public in a convenient, inexpensive form.

Well, we at the Crude Group decided to do something about that, so we put our top researchers on the job. The result? Wholesome, tasty No-Gane Fungus Crystals, in Strawberry, Chocolate and exotic Tuna'n'Berry flavours, all sealed for freshness in our handy `FungoFoil' one-serving packages.

We think you'll be so delighted with No-Gane Fungus Crystals you'll probably never want to eat anything else again, even after you've achieved your ideal body weight. Don't take our word for it, though. Take a look at this completely unsolicited testimonial (one of thousands we receive at Crude Group Headquarters every day) and decide for yourself!

§lm12:rm68:cm Indent testimonial 4 spaces on both sides
Dear Sir or Madam:

Just wanted to express to you my delight with your wholesome, tasty No-Gane Fungus Crystals, which I ordered recently in the Strawberry, Chocolate and exotic Tuna'n'Berry flavours, in the handy `Fungofoil' one-serving packages. I don't expect I'll ever want to eat anything else again, even though I've long since achieved my ideal body weight.

T.G., Centrifuge, Iowa

§lm8:rm72:cm Restore original indent
To experience this PROFOUND EATING SATISFACTION and AMAZING WEIGHT LOSS MIRACLE in your own home, just call our 100% non-toll-free number today! You may never regret it!

Oh so sincerely,




Lester Mortar
for The Crude Group
